Type enclosing query (#1304)
ocaml/ocaml-lsp: ocaml-lsp-server/docs/ocamllsp/typeEnclosing-spec.md

# Type Enclosing Request

## Description

Merlin has a concept of `type enclosing` that gets the type of ident under the
cursor. It will highlight the ident and display its type. You can climb the
typed-tree and display the type of bigger expressions surrounding the cursor. In
order to keep the request stateless, the manipulation related to growing or
shrinking enclosings is delegated to the client. This request allows to request
type enclosing under the cursor and then its surrounding enclosings.

## Client capability

There is no client capability relative to this request.

## Server capability

- property name: `handleTypeEnclosing`
- property type: `boolean`

## Request

- method: `ocamllsp/typeEnclosing`
- params:

  ```json
  {
    "textDocument": TextDocumentIdentifier,
    "position": Position,
    "index": uinteger,

>     "verbosity": uinteger,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "verbosity?": uinteger,
```

>     "rangeEnd?": Position

Reviewer: I think we should describe the roles of the parameters here, especially rangeend (we could simply reuse the comments in the design doc if they are up-to-date)

Reviewer 2: Instead of this scheme, I'd recommend the following:

1. Either take a `range` parameter
2. Or a `position` parameter

That way you can stick to standard field names and users can use the convenient `Range.t` type to work with your request.

Author: You are right. Fixed in https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml-lsp/pull/1304/commits/89efc55328efe1b68879bbc5b388d913ad63ff0b

# Type Enclosing Request

## Description

Merlin has a concept of `type enclosing` that gets the type of ident under the
cursor. It will highlight the ident and display its type. You can climb the
typed-tree and display the type of bigger expressions surrounding the cursor.

> Since _LSP_ is stateless, the manipulation related to growing or shrinking

Reviewer: Even if the interface we propose for `type-enclosing` is somehow stateless, LSP itself is not a stateless protocol.

> enclosings is delayed to the client. This request allows to request type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enclosings is delegated to the client. This request allows to request type
```

> enclosing under the cursor with a support of parent enclosings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enclosing under the cursor and then its surrounding enclosings.
```

## Client capability

There is no client capability relative to this request.

## Server capability

- property name: `handleTypeEnclosing`
- property type: `boolean`

## Request

- method: `ocamllsp/typeEnclosing`
- params:

  ```json
  {
    "textDocument": TextDocumentIdentifier,
    "position": Position,
    "workDoneToken?": ProgressToken,
    "index": uinteger,
    "verbosity": uinteger,
    "rangeEnd?": Position

>   }

Reviewer: I think I forgot the `uri` of the document in my specification, we should respect this interface:
https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocumentPositionParams

Not sure about the utility of the `workDoneToken` however.

Author: I think it is already handle by `textDocumentPosition` (that has a `texDocument` field, which is a `textDocumentIdentifier`, that has a `uri` field :) )

Reviewer: Oh sorry ! I didn't see that :-)

cursor. It will highlight the ident and display its type. You can climb the
typed-tree and display the type of bigger expressions surrounding the cursor. In
order to keep the request stateless, the manipulation related to growing or
shrinking enclosings is delegated to the client. This request allows to request
type enclosing under the cursor and then its surrounding enclosings.

## Client capability

There is no client capability relative to this request.

## Server capability

- property name: `handleTypeEnclosing`
- property type: `boolean`

## Request

- method: `ocamllsp/typeEnclosing`
- params:

  ```json
  {
    "uri": TextDocumentIdentifier,
    "at": (Position | Range),
    "index": uinteger,
    "verbosity?": uinteger,
  }
  ```

  - `index` can be used to print only one type information. This is useful to query
    the types lazily: normally, Merlin would return the signature of all enclosing
    modules, which can be very expensive.
  - `verbosity` determines the number of expansions of aliases in answers.
  - `at` :
    - if a `Position` is given, it will returns all enclosing around the position
    - if a `Range` is given, only enclosings that contain the range

>     `[range.start; range.end[` will be included in the answer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `[range.start; range.end]` will be included in the answer
```

Not sure why I excluded the end of the range when writtng the spec.
